+++
title = "So You&#8217;re Heading to VMworld 2015"
date = "2015-07-02T21:54:37Z"
draft = false
tags = [ "conferences", "virtualization", "VMworld",]
categories = [ "Education", "Virtualization",]
featureimage = "featured.jpg"
+++


Congrats on getting to go! Let's start with that. [VMworld](http://www.vmworld.com) 2015 along with the other major tech conferences are a very cool thing for the geek inclined in that they provide you, the geek, the necessary environment to mix business, pleasure and the absolute cutting edge of our chosen field. Last year was my first VMworld and I have to say what I find very compelling about it is the element of community that seems to be everywhere surrounding the conference. It is not at all unusual to start your day at the conference in the morning and end it in the early hours of the next morning after a full night of community events and shindigs, many of which contain content just as valuable as what you get at the actual conference. If you are a first timer then this post is for you as I'd like to pass on what I learned last year to save you some pain points and give you a heads up as to what I found valuable. If you are a veteran then maybe you'll find something new here too, but in any case it's always worth sharing information. <iframe align="right" height="240" src="https://www.google.com/maps/d/embed?mid=zDUd5WTQm3bo.kkYlc3kA7IUk" width="320"></iframe>**[Geography 101 (Click for full map)](https://mapsengine.google.com/map/edit?mid=zDUd5WTQm3bo.kkYlc3kA7IUk):** First off understand where you are staying and where you are going. Last year was my first time in San Francisco and while I found it a beautiful city the information provided on the VMworld hotel options list isn't the fullest, frankly it needs to be topographical. If you are lucky enough this year to get a hotel that is south of Market Street, congrats! you are a rare breed. If not, and you are north of Market know that everything from Market to the north and west is impressively vertical. Downhill in the mornings, uphill in the evenings. While there are shuttles, I never saw a single one last year. If you've been looking for a reason to buy or use a step tracker such as a Fitbit or simply using your iPhone this is it. Even with a close hotel expect anywhere from 15-20,000 steps a day. **This Is Training, Right?**: Next let's talk about session scheduling. The [Schedule Builder](https://www.vmworld.com/schedulebuilder-login.jspa) opened up two days ago meaning that if you haven't already got in many of the sessions you may want already show as full. By all means do not be afraid to add yourself to the waitlist or click the "Add to Interests" star icon as VMware will move sessions to bigger rooms or even add additional sessions to meet need. The flip side of the sessions argument is also don't freak out if you don't get what you are wanting, but because included in your conference pass is the ability to watch all the sessions online after the fact. These will generally be available online a couple of weeks after the conference. What this leads to is my personal philosophy this year. I am planning to only do a couple of sessions a day this year, with the priority being doing the group discussions where you have the ability to interact and the Expert Led Hands-On Workshops, a new feature this year. The former allows you to bang questions off of subject matter experts and start a dialog that you may be able to expand on later in the week on topics that you are really needing help with. The latter takes the concept of the Hands On Labs and puts it more into a classroom setting where instead of here's a lab and go freeform , everybody works through a task together. While my interests will be larger than what I actually sit in, it's easier to find time to watch the videos the other 51 weeks of the year. So what will I be doing with the rest of my time? Well... **VMworld Is All About Community**: One of the things that I find VMworld really gets right is that for every valuable thing directly related to the conference itself (sessions, the show floor, certification, etc.) there are a great many community-led things surrounding it. Last year brought us the inaugural [VMunderground](https://twitter.com/vmunderground)/vBrownBag [Opening Acts](http://blog.vmunderground.com/2015/07/09/ready-for-un/) as a precursor to the VMunderground gathering and it had some great technical content in a smaller setting, allowing for great interaction. There will be vendor events galore throughout the week, if you have a particular company or set of companies you are wanting to evaluate for a solution reach out to them and see if they are doing anything special for the conference, most likely they'll give you an invite. Are you wanting to get certified? There are even community led certification workshops going on through the week. The Social Media Lounge is a great place to head when your brain gets fried from the sessions and even check out some sessions yourself. To start with you'll find there is never enough room in the main auditorium for the major keynotes so I find it better to head over to the lounge, grab a table and watch on the big screen. Go early for that as well because it will fill up too. Also there if you can't handle another 1.5 hour session, the [vBrownBag](http://professionalvmware.com/brownbags/) (follow #vBrownBag) guys have a dedicated area with a full plate of 15-20 minute sessions on just about any topic you can think of. Want to talk about something yourself? Be sure to reach out to the guys and they may be able to accommodate you. To find all of the above be sure to follow the various [VMworld social media methods](http://www.vmworld.com/en/social.html). Adding a #VMworld column in [TweetDeck](http://www.tweetdeck.com) is probably the first place to start, these things are being announced all the time. At some point in the near future the [Gatherings page](http://www.vmworld.com/community/gatherings/) will come back and that will be a pretty full listing as well. The key, especially for us locked in the dungeon SysAdmin types, is to not be afraid to be social. You are going to be at a gathering of some of the smartest thought leaders in your chosen profession, don't be afraid to reach out and say hi as they are generally pretty nice people. Well, that will just about do it for me. If you are going and you see me, please do say hi. In any event enjoy yourself and be ready, it's a great week!